Crosswalk for Kubernetes (#1864)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/guides/crosswalk/kubernetes/_index.md

[Pulumi Crosswalk for Kubernetes][crosswalk-k8s] is a collection of industry standard
best-practices for managing Kubernetes, and its infrastructure in production.

This guide is for provisioning and configuring production-grade Kubernetes
clusters, and deploying workloads into the clusters.

If you are just getting started with Pulumi and Kubernetes, the [Get Started][k8s-get-started] guide is a better place to start.

<a href="/images/docs/quickstart/kubernetes/cake.svg">
<img src="/images/docs/quickstart/kubernetes/cake.svg">
</a>

## Overview

The steps to follow include:

  * [Create the Control Plane][crosswalk-control-plane]
  * [Create the Worker Nodes][crosswalk-worker-nodes]
  * [Try Out the Cluster][crosswalk-try-out-the-cluster]
  * [Configure Cluster Defaults][crosswalk-configure-defaults]
  * [Configure Access Control][crosswalk-configure-access]
  * [Deploy Cluster Services][crosswalk-cluster-svcs]
  * [Deploy App Services][crosswalk-app-svcs]
  * [Deploy Apps][crosswalk-apps]
  * [Update the Worker Nodes][crosswalk-update-worker-nodes]

## Production Architecture for Teams

Misconfigured infrastructure accounts are the source of a significant number of serious

> production outages in major systems. Many of these failure modes are preventable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
production outages. Many of these failure modes are preventable.
```

The primary objective of this reference architecture is to create sensible
defaults that reduce the likelihood of these errors. Modern infrastructure as
code tools, such as Pulumi, are an effective means of accomplishing
this goal.

Pulumi tools allow engineering teams to share specifications for what their
infrastructure should look like and allow teams to reliably provision and manage
infrastructure. Changes to infrastructure can be audited as part of
code review and they allow teams to detect drift.

This architecture is meant to show how these tools can be used within a team
to employ and understand:

> * **Security:** Who has access to what, and how are things ensured?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Security:** Who has access to what, and how is this policy enforced?
```

* **Engineering:**  How do we automate this with CI/CD?

## Production Infrastructure as Code

At the core of this architecture is a simple idea: that we should separate resources into
loosely-coupled, independently-manageable sets, based on risk and functionality.

We suggest splitting infrastructure up into (roughly) six [Pulumi
stacks]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/organizing-stacks-projects" >}}) of resources.

### 1. Identity

Identities and role definitions for organizations and CI/CD are required before anyone can provision
anything. This is a requirement for every production Kubernetes deployment.

By isolating resources into loosely-coupled stacks, we
can grant minimal permissions based on the [principle of least
privilege][least-privileged].

The identity stack typically contains:

* Identities and roles for the team e.g. [AWS IAM][aws-iam], [GCP IAM][gcp-iam], [Azure AD][azure-ad].

    For example, the database team typically gets only administrative permissions for the datastores, while an app team might only get cluster developer permissions.
* Service Accounts for bots and CI/CD.

    While IAM roles and Active Directory accounts describe identity of users,

>     service accounts grant an identity for workloads, e.g. Storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    service accounts grant an identity for workloads, e.g., Storage
```

    CI/CD.

### 2. Managed Infrastructure

Provisioning shared, managed infrastructure is required to configure the
cluster.

At a minimum, this typically includes networking infrastructure,
and can often include storage backends along with other cloud services such as
VMs, registries, data pipelines, and data warehouses.

### 3. Kubernetes Cluster

> Configuring and provision the Kubernetes cluster with the desired settings and defaults.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure and provision the Kubernetes cluster with the desired settings and defaults.
```

This also typically involves provisioning the Kubernetes cluster infrastructure
with [API resources][k8s-api-resources] such as Namespaces, Roles , RoleBindings, and Quotas.

Using a managed Kubernetes cluster on [EKS][eks], [GKE][gke], or [AKS][aks] is

> the easiest recommended way to get started with deploying a cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the easiest way to deploy a cluster.
```

### 4. Cluster Services

> With a running, vanilla cluster you can install any Kubernetes cluster-scoped

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a vanilla cluster running, you can install any Kubernetes cluster-scoped
```

> services that will be shared by a subset or all cluster users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
services that will be shared by some or all cluster users.
```

At a minimum, services that should be installed include centralized cluster and app-based logging, and often
include monitoring, policies, and service meshes.

### 5. App Services

Configure any Kubernetes app-scoped services that will be shared

> by a subset or all users with deployment permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with users using deployment permissions.
```
